---
title: 'My Experience with AppFuse: Part I'
author: ajordens
layout: post
permalink: /2004/08/my-experience-with-appfuse-part-i/
categories:
  - Java
---
[Raible&#8217;s Wiki: AppFuse][1]

**History**  
I&#8217;ve been developing a little fitness application off-and-on for the past 6 or 7 months. Primarily it has been swing front-end, postgresql on the back, an  
d hibernate in the middle.

The application is a combination of providing me with the opportunity to build something useful (to myself at least) and play with a variety of technologie  
s I don&#8217;t often touch in my J2EE professional life.

**Enter AppFuse**  
I&#8217;ve read about and played with Spring a bit and developed plans to integrate it. I also wanted to get back into developing webapp&#8217;s since it had been abo  
ut a year since I last touched Struts. 

AppFuse provides the opportunity to integrate Struts, Spring, Hibernate and just about any other technology [Matt Raible  
][2] has an interest in.

For the past couple weeks I&#8217;ve been migrating and re-structing my code-base to integrate the AppFuse-based front-end and my thick swing front-end into a si  
mple build and deploy process. I knew enough about spring, hibernate and struts to have some immediate success which I like. I learn by getting knee-deep  
in the code and AppFuse easily facilitates that.

**Pro&#8217;s**

  * Lot&#8217;s of technology &#8211; if you want experience with a variety of fairly cutting-edge systems, AppFuse provides that.
  * Decent Documentation &#8211; Matt has a series of tutorials to get you into his framework. I&#8217;ll admit that I skipped most of them and just went straight to  
    the code.
  * Lot&#8217;s of autogenerated xml files
  * Professional &#8211; It&#8217;s nice to see a framework that immediately gives you something that has the appearance of being a professional application, even if i  
    ts just a skeleton.
  * Support for unit-testing out of the box.
  * &#8230; there are more pro&#8217;s but I&#8217;ll stick with these for this post

**Cons**

  * A learning curve for those not familiar with xdoclet and the various xml files that are required of a struts, spring and hibernate application
  * In the past I&#8217;ve perferred to use Strut&#8217;s dynaforms to hold my form data. I&#8217;m happy editing my struts-config.xml file by hand or with an editor and d  
    on&#8217;t necessary need it auto-generated from my data model. There is likely a way to avoid the autogenerated actionforms and struts-config.xml but I haven&#8217;t  
    bothered to look much into it.

All in all, I&#8217;m having success and fun working with AppFuse and suggest that anyone else who wants to dip their foot into Struts, Spring and Hibernate to c  
heck it out. Once I have the web-interface further built out, I&#8217;ll likely integrate spring into the thick client because it just makes handling hibernate  
sessions so simple.

Kudo&#8217;s to Matt. I&#8217;ve already got plans to pick [Spring Live][3] up once it&#8217;s released and I have so  
me spare cycles.

 [1]: http://raibledesigns.com/wiki/Wiki.jsp?page=AppFuse "Raible's Wiki: AppFuse"
 [2]: http://raibledesigns.com/
 [3]: http://www.sourcebeat.com/TitleAction.do?id=7